.. toctree::

.. highlight:: sh

===============
Developer Guide
===============


Setup Development Environment
=============================

#. Install ``pip`` and ``tox``:

   ::

      sudo apt-get install python-pip
      sudo pip install tox

#. Configure git pre-commit hook:

   ::

      sudo pip install flake8 pep8-naming
      flake8 --install-hook
      git config flake8.strict true


Building Documentation
======================

::

   tox -e doc

Output will be available at ``.tox/doc/tmp/html``. It is recommended to install
the ``webdev`` package:

::

   sudo pip install webdev

So a development web server can serve any location like this:

::

   $ webdev .tox/doc/tmp/html


Running Test Suite
==================

::

   tox -e py27,py34


Adding functions
================

Vtysh library is autogenerated from a description dictionary via **tools/spec**
python script. This dictionary is composed by *contexts*, each one containing
several *commands*.

The dictionary can be found on *tools/spec* and has the following structure:

::

      'context': {
        'doc': 'Context documentation.',
        'arguments': [
            {
                'name': 'arg1',
                'doc': 'Context argument 1.'
            }
        ],
        'pre_commands': ['pre command 1', 'pre command 2 {arg1}'],
        'post_commands': ['post command'],
        'commands': [
            {
                'command': 'vtysh command {arg_a}',
                'doc': 'Documentation for the command',
                'arguments': [
                    {
                        'name': 'arg_a',
                        'doc': 'Argument for command.'
                    },
                ],
            },
            ...
         ]
      }

A *context* is a vtysh context, to get inside one a list of *pre_commands* is
run on a vtysh cli, when you are done with the context a list of
*post_commands* is executed to clean the cli.

Inside the context any number of commands can be defined. The python function
generated will be called as the vtysh command, but with underscores. This way
the first command on the example will create a function called *vtysh_command*
with *arg_a* as argument.

To add a new command to the library, a developer needs to:

1. Find if the context for the command is already defined on the dictionary.
2. If it is not defined, it has to be added.
3. Define the new command inside *commands* on the correct context
4. Execute the generator script. To do this:

   1. Go to the ``topology_lib_vtysh`` root folder.
   2. Run ``source .tox/py34/bin/activate``.
   3. Run ``./tools/spec``.
   4. Run ``deactivate``.


If the vtysh command has output (by example any *show* command), a parser
function has to be defined in **parser.py**. The name of this function must be
"parse_<name_of_the_function>". For example, if a command is "show house" a
python function called "show_house" will be autogenerated and the developer
must manually define a function named "parse_show_house" on parser.py with a
description on how to parse the result of the vtysh command.

Usage is described on :class:`topology_lib_vtysh.library.ContextManager`

Collisions between commands
...........................

It may happen that there are 2 or more vtysh commands that share the same
instructions (the actual words that make the vtysh command) but have different
types of parameters.

For example, this could be one of those cases:

- ``vtysh command ip`` where ``vtysh command`` are instructions and ``ip``
  is an argument.
- ``vtysh command group`` where ``vtysh command`` are instructions and
  ``group`` is an argument.

In that case, there must exist only one library function where its
documentation clearly explains the multiple types of parameters that it may
receive. You can find an example in the documentation for
:func:`topology_lib_vtysh.library.Configure.ip_route`.
